We're finally in Cyllage City!
Yay, we made it!
[EXCITED]
There it is, Pikachu.
Can't wait to go
and challenge Grant
so we can beat
the Cyllage City Gym.
[DETERMINED]
Of course,
Ash is sure that he'll win.
NARRATOR
A long journey
and lots of training
have brought Ash
and the rest of our Heroes
to his second Gym badge
challenge in Cyllage City.
But will all that training
be enough?
♪ I wanna be the very best ♪
♪ Like no one ever was ♪
♪ To catch them
is my real test ♪
♪ To train them is my cause ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ Gotta catch 'em all ♪
♪ It's you and me ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ I know it's my destiny ♪
♪ Yeah you're my best friend ♪
♪ In a world we must defend ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ Gotta catch 'em all ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪♪
ASH
"Climbing the Walls."
Hey, you guys. Let step on it.
[AGREE]
Huh? Ash, where are you going?
‐ The Gym isn't that way.
‐ It isn't?
Ah. It looks like it's
way up there on that mountain.
Huh!
[SURPRISED]
Wow! So this is the Cyllage Gym.
‐ I think.
‐ This is a Gym?
[SHOCKED]
‐ Look at the pretty colors.
‐ 'Whoa.'
Grant, it's Ash.
I'm here to challenge you
to a Gym battle.
‐ 'Are you ready?'
‐ Sure. No problem.
'I've been waiting for you.'
'Climb on up.'
Uh, climb what?
[CONFUSED]
GRANT
'This wall, of course.'
'The battlefield's
up at the top.'
‐ Huh!
‐ 'Oh!'
‐ 'No way!'
‐ 'Yes way.'
You see, my Cyllage Gym
specializes
in Rock‐type Pokémon.
I feel all challengers should
experience
my great love of rocks.
'So I designed the Gym
to accomplish that'
'by allowing you to
climb up on your own power.'
You don't mean all of us,
do you?
No. Not to worry.
We've got an elevator
over there as well.
'The choice is yours.'
Now, just because
you don't scale the wall
doesn't mean
I won't accept your challenge.
SERENA
'What're you going to do, Ash?'
Climb it, of course.
Ready to go, Pikachu?
PIKACHU [DETERMINED]
[grunting]
Oh..
Ash, I like your spirit.
I'll wait for you at the top.
[EXCITED]
Let's go.
‐ Huh!
‐ Wait. Bonnie.
We're going to
take the elevator.
Hmph.
[groaning]
‐ Oh!
‐ Huh!
[URGING]
[FOCUSED]
Hey there, Grant. I made it.
Well done, Ash.
So, what were you thinking about
when you were climbing?
Huh? Uh, well, I wasn't
thinking about anything.
That's perfect.
‐ So, what were you looking at?
‐ Huh!
Hmm.
Straight up,
where I was going.
Excellent.
That means you achieved
a state of enlightenment.
Your mind was crystal clear.
Unclouded.
Now that you've
successfully conquered the wall
the next wall
you will need to conquer is me.
And that's what
you came here for, challenger.
Right.
[DETERMINED]
A question.
Why do you have challengers
climb the wall?
So that inner peace
can be achieved.
‐ Inner peace?
‐ What's that mean?
Scaling the wall.
It's the best way I know
to achieve a state
of enlightenment.
When I do that, I forget
about everything else
and the only thing
I concentrate on is
reaching the top.
That is my one
and only goal.
The only thing I want is to
arrive at my destination.
As long as there
is a wall for me to climb
I will rise to the challenge.
I want challengers to achieve
the same state of enlightenment
when they climb up here to me.
Hah!
[EXCITED]
'Now, the battle between Grant,
the Cyllage City Gym Leader'
'and Ash, the challenger
from Pallet Town'
'is about to begin.'
'The Gym Leader will have
the use of only two Pokémon '
'while the challenger will
have the use of all the Pok mon.
'that he currently has
in his possession.'
I can use all of them?
That's how
the Cyllage Gym operates.
I want to see
everything that Trainers
‐ and their Pokémon can do.
‐ Oh. Got it.
Right now,
I've got three Pokémon.
We'll work together
to do our best
and then
I'll win that Gym badge.
Only the challenger
will be allowed to substitute
Pokémon during the battle.
So, if you please,
bring out your Pokémon.
I've really been looking forward
to your challenge
since I first saw you battle
back at the Battle Chateau.
Now let's see which Pokémon
you plan to use
to scale the wall,
and that wall is me.
Onix, let's go.
[APPEARING]
[READY]
So he's gonna use Onix first.
In that case, I'll do this.
Froakie, I choose you!
[APPEARING]
[READY]
Hey, there's Froakie.
Water‐types have an advantage
over Rock‐types.
Ash has a sound strategy.
Serena, is something wrong?
‐ 'You look so worried.'
‐ Huh?
Bonnie's right.
You do look worried.
‐ Are you nervous?
‐ Me, nervous?
Huh, not at all.
That's weird. Ash is the one
who's battling, not you.
Yeah, I know.
I didn't understand back
at the Santalune Gym
'but now I know how hard it
really is to earn a Gym badge.'
Ever since Ash saw Grant
at the Battle Chateau
he's been doing nothing
but preparing to
challenge the Cyllage Gym
and win a badge.
'We've all seen how hard
Ash's been working.'
'A victory here would mean
the world to him.'
'And that's why
I'm feeling so nervous.'
I think we've all been training
really hard together.
You're right. I just hope all
that training pays off for him.
Huh!
You're rooting for Ash too,
Dedenne?
[EXCITED]
Huh?
Alright. Battle begin.
Okay, Froakie, Water Pulse.
[WATER PULSE MOVE]
Flash Cannon, go.
[FLASH CANNON MOVE]
Huh!
[DAZED]
Froakie, are you alright?
[EXERTION]
Awesome. Let's go.
Rock Polish.
[ROCK POLISH MOVE]
Onix has increased its speed.
[EXERTION]
I can see what
your strategy is, Ash.
Clearly attacking Onix's
large body is your goal.
But can you deal with its speed?
Now go after Froakie.
[ATTACK]
Froakie, stay calm.
Use Double Team!
[DOUBLE TEAM MOVE]
[CONFUSED]
A speedy Double Team, indeed.
But it isn't gonna help you
one bit against our next move.
Here it comes.
Now it's time to experience
the true power of Rock‐types.
Use Rock Tomb!
[ROCK TOMB MOVE]
Oh, Ash!
I guess we'll see if all
that training pays off.
You can do it, Froakie.
Froakie,
watch carefully then, jump!
[ATTACK]
[EXERTION]
That should end your
Double Team.
Now, let's see if you can
escape from our Rock Tomb.
Now, Froakie, show them what
all that training was for.
[EXERTION]
Keep on jumpin'. Higher!
[ANGRY]
Howis it possible?
We saw that Rock Tomb
at the Battle Chateau.
And I knew we'd have to
beat it for me to earn a badge.
So we did some serious
special training
to come up with a way
to counter act that move.
I'm beyond impressed.
It's called
the Froakie Rock Tomb Climb.
Amazing.
The Froakie Rock Tomb Climb.
Yay, yay, yay!
CLEMONT
'That should give Ash
lots of confidence.'
[EXERTION]
Follow it up with Water Pulse.
[WATER PULSE MOVE]
[PAINED]
Onix, Iron Tail!
[IRON TAIL MOVE]
Dodge it, quick.
[DODGE MOVE]
Okay, now climb up on Onix.
[EXERTION]
Onix, shake Froakie off.
‐ Froakie, way to go.
‐ Yeah, hang on tight.
Now finish it.
Water Pulse!
[AGITATED]
[WATER PULSE MOVE]
[PAINED]/[DAZED]
Onix is unable to battle.
‐ Froakie wins!
‐ Alright.
The Froakie Rock Tomb Climb
rocked it hard.
[EXCITED]
‐ Yes! The training paid off.
‐ You were so great, Froakie.
Using Water Pulse
from super‐close range.
It sure worked well.
Thanks. Great job, Onix.
Please, return.
You are quite a surprise, Ash.
It's exactly like
what Viola warned me about.
She advised me not to
underestimate you
and she was quite correct.
The best defense
is a good offense.
That's the way I battle.
Ash, you sure showed them
how cool you are.
That's true, but there's still
one wall left to climb.
Ash still has one more Pokémon
to beat to earn the badge.
Hmm.
Time for my second Pokémon.
Tyrunt, let's go!
[APPEARING]
[FOCUSED]
GROUP
Who's that Pokémon?
It's Tyrunt.
[FOCUSED]
Who's that Pokémon?
POKEDEX
Tyrunt.
The Royal Heir Pokémon.
'Tyrunt's jaws
are so big and powerful'
'it can crunch up a car.'
'If it doesn't like something'
'it responds
with a wild tantrum.'
[FOCUSED]/[ANGRY]
Tyrunt, we have to watch out
for that big mouth
and those sharp teeth.
Ash should remember
that Tyrunt is both a Rock‐type
and a Dragon‐type Pokémon.
‐ Dragon‐type, too?
‐ It sounds pretty strong to me.
[WORRIED]
You're scared?
Guess you think
it's strong, too.
Does the challenger wish
to make a substitution now?
No, thanks.
I'm going to stick
with Froakie, okay?
[DETERMINED]
REFEREE
Alright, battle begin.
Let's give it
everything we've got.
Double Team!
[DOUBLE TEAM MOVE]
[AGITATED]
Tyrunt, Rock Tomb!
[ROCK TOMB MOVE]
It can use Rock Tomb, too.
Froakie. You and Ash can do it.
The rocks are moving
a lot faster.
[ATTACK]
Alright, Froakie,
Rock Tomb Climb, now.
BONNIE
'Awesome. Rock Tomb Climb
and Double Team.'
What a fascinating strategy.
Here we go. Use Bubble!
[BUBBLE MOVE]
Huh!
We'll be able to get
all the way up to the top.
I wouldn't be overly confident.
‐ Huh?
‐ Now, Tyrunt, jump!
[EXERTION]
‐ Whoa!
‐ Wow, what a jump!
Tyrunt. Draco Meteor!
[DRACO METEOR MOVE]
[FEAR]
Froakie, no!
[DAZED]
REFEREE
'Froakie is unable to battle.'
'Tyrunt wins!'
[PROUD]
[CONCERN]
‐ Oh, no.
‐ Tyrunt can use Draco Meteor.
Okay, Froakie, return.
That was an awesome job.
[PROUD]
So, Ash,
how do you like my Tyrunt?
I'm especially proud
of Tyrunt's strong legs
and its Rock Tomb is the
absolute best of the best.
And its Draco Meteor
just how will you
climb that wall?
[AGREE]
'You know what I think?'
'The stronger the opponent
the more fun the battle.'
I'll deal with any wall
you put up for me to climb.
Alright, Fletchling,
I choose you!
[APPEARING]
‐ A Flying‐type, eh?
‐ Fletchling, Razor Wind!
[RAZOR WIND MOVE]
GRANT
'Use Crunch.'
[EXERTION]
Tyrunt, ate the move.
Tyrunt's mouth
and teeth are very strong.
Alright, Fletchling,
use Double Team.
[AGREE]
[DOUBLE TEAM MOVE]
It's all or nothing, now!
Steel Wing, let's go!
Fly straight in!
[STEEL WING MOVE]
GRANT
'Dragon Tail!'
[EXERTION]
Another jump.
Tyrunt's jumping ability
is simply incredible.
It totally counters
any aerial advantage.
[DRAGON TAIL MOVE]
[FEAR]
[STEEL WING MOVE]
[PAINED]
Oh.
[DAZED]
'Fletchling is unable
to battle.'
'Tyrunt wins.'
[PROUD]
ASH
'Fletchling, return.'
You were great out there.
[CONCERN]
Alright, buddy,
it's up to you now.
You can do it.
[DETERMINED]
TYRUNT [DETERMINED]
So it seems we've arrived
at our final battle.
I know what all
of Tyrunt's moves are.
‐ All I've got to do is win.
‐ Your spirit is strong.
Although, Rock Tomb Climb
is quite creative
it won't work against
Draco Meteor.
'Also, Pikachu
is an Electric‐type'
'while Tyrunt is
a Rock and Dragon‐type.'
'Tyrunt clearly
has the advantage.'
Okay, bring it on!
Pikachu, Quick Attack!
[QUICK ATTACK MOVE]
Tyrunt, Crunch!
[CRUNCH MOVE]
ASH
'Jump, Pikachu.'
[EXERTION]
GRANT
'Draco Meteor!'
[DRACO METEOR MOVE]
Iron Tail, go!
[IRON TAIL MOVE]
[PAINED]
‐ Look out!
‐ Pikachu's going to get hit.
You think so? Pikachu,
jump as high as you can.
Now, go into Draco Meteor Climb.
[EXERTION]
Looks like Rock Tomb Climb.
But they turned it
into Draco Meteor Climb.
No matter what happens
you can never count
Ash and Pikachu out.
Look at that!
Tyrunt, Dragon Tail!
[IRON TAIL MOVE]
[DRAGON TAIL MOVE]
Keep using Iron Tail.
[EXERTION]
[all gasp]
‐ Hmm.
Excellent. Quite well‐executed.
We keep on getting stronger
even while we're battling.
And an exciting battle it is.
To show my respect
for your passion
I'm going to wrap this up
with my favorite move.
‐ Time for Rock Tomb!
‐ Well, I'm ready for it.
[ROCK TOMB MOVE]
Alright,
deflect them with Iron Tail.
[IRON TAIL MOVE]
[EXERTION]
[ANGRY]
[PAINED]
‐ Tyrunt!
‐ What a mouthful.
Now Tyrunt can't use Crunch.
Pikachu can get in close.
Now, I'll wrap this up
with my favorite move.
Pikachu, use Thunderbolt!
[THUNDERBOLT MOVE]
[PAINED]
[DAZED]
REFEREE
'Tyrunt is unable to battle.'
'Pikachu wins.'
'Which means the match goes
to the challenger, Ash.'
You were so awesome!
Pikachu, we won!
[EXHAUSTED]
[chuckles]
‐ They won!
‐ Hooray!
Oh, that Ash never
ceases to amaze me.
[EXERTION]
That certainly
turned into a heated
and fearsome battle, didn't it?
Thank you so very much.
[GRATEFUL]
Your Rock Tomb Climb
really surprised me.
But the biggest surprise
of all was having
Pikachu use Thunderbolt,
which shouldn't have been
'that effective on Tyrunt,
a Rock and Dragon‐type.'
Everyone was awesome.
[PROUD]
[HAPPY]
'Thanks to Froakie,
Fletchling and Pikachu.'
This's a victory
for all three of you.
Wonderful!
By working together
you all managed to scale
the wall that is known as
the Cyllage City Gym battle.
As a symbol of that, I present
you with the Cliff Badge.
[EXCITED]
Thank you so much, Grant.
We did it, Pikachu.
All that hard work paid off.
[HAPPY]
[SATISFIED]
Alright!
I won the Cliff Badge!
[EXCITED]
‐ Congratulations, Ash.
‐ That battle was so cool.
I've never seen
a battle of yours
when I wasn't completely
amazed and impressed by you.
Thanks a lot, you guys.
GRANT
'Tell me, Ash,
have you already decided'
which Gym you'll challenge
for your third Kalos Gym badge?
Nope. Guess I'd better
start thinking about that.
I've got an idea.
I know the perfect place
we should go to next.
'The Shalour City Gym.'
'There's the Tower
of Mastery nearby'
'and I've always wanted
to go see it.'
Yes, Shalour City.
Good choice.
It's quite nice.
Shalour City, sounds good to me.
I think you'll have
quite a different battle
experience at the Shalour Gym
than your typical battle.
What kind of different
experience is that?
You'll find out
when you get there.
But I can guarantee you
another challenging
and fierce wall
for you to climb.
Hah!
[EXCITED]
Great. Then I'm going to Shalour
City for my next Gym badge.
And that's that.
More adventures.
This should be fun.
I'm just wondering
what kind of Gym it is.
One more thing.
Let's have a rematch
at the Battle Chateau.
You bet.
Ash, if you want to have
a battle with Grant
at the Battle Chateau,
don't you need to
have the noble title
of Grand Duke?
Yeah. You're right.
I can do that.
It's all part of becoming
a Pokémon Master.
[AGREE]
NARRATOR
Following a tough battle
with Grant
at the Cyllage City Gym
Ash has earned his second
Kalos Gym badge, t he Cliff
Badge.
Now, our Heroes set
their sights on Shalour City
as the journey continues.
[theme music]